the internet today has been described as
this big nervous system for Humanity
right so much of what we do today is
carried through these digital pipes so
much of our economy is just run entirely
on the internet now and we interface
with the internet and with each other
through a series of applications and
these run mostly on the web the web is
sort of like the transfer protocol for
how these applications move around is a
way of being able to deploy different
media and to be able to move to to link
people from one set of things to another
to put people in applications and to
give people functionality that they
didn't previously have so the page just
loads and you retrieve some function new
functionality here and have and you now
can access all right new things right so
this was a huge breakthrough of course
but it has some problems today now the
crazy thing about the N around the web
is that it's just a collection of
protocols right so it's a bunch of
really good ideas of how to do things
things that have worked things that
haven't that gets standardized put into
footage of browsers and put into all
their tools and into computers and then
this Orchestra of programs runs and
gives us this amazing range of
capabilities right so everything that we
as humans can do today you know be able
to learn remotely be able to think
together be able to talk to a person
around the world happens thanks to these
great protocols that have been written
by by people that really were just
aiming to augment their own experiences
and through that ended up augmenting
what the rest of humanity can do so this
is kind of mind-blowing right because it
means that if you find a problem with
the internet over you have some new
ideas about what humanity should be able
to do you can just write a protocol and
then you implement it and if you're
right and it works then you tell the
world and then it gets deployed and then
a lot of people will use it and will be
better place so it's it's a great place
to be now uh we
have found some problems that we're not
telling you about and they mostly have
to do with how we move applications
through the web so it's moving
not just applications but any kind of
media so you know documents images
pictures fictional images video and so
on so I think this is mostly related to
HTTP and it's sort of enhanced HP and
should be used alongside it or maybe as
a sham and potentially in some cases
like actually just transition over to
using IP FS and step now a the big
problem behind this change or what we're
trying to to solve here is the problem
of using a location addressing so if
you've loaded a URL you you have this
first part of the URL that's the domain
right and that's you know here it's
example.com the domain is resolved to an
IP address and an IP address means the
set of numbers that you need to dial to
get connected to another computer across
the network so what does that picture
look like say that you're here
highlighted in blue and you're trying to
access this picture through the internet
and you have an address and address has
you know these numbers and then a path
for the for the actual file that means
that that you're going to find a
specific other computer at that address
and fetch the image from that computer
now suppose that all of the other
computers pictured here have the exact
same file locally including one that's
very close to you in the network perhaps
maybe it's in the same room but doesn't
matter as far as ATP is concerned that
is not the same file and you have to go
across the world to 10.20 dot 30 or 40
to find actually that's probably one
result kiss to fan dot is a local
address but anyways the issue here is
that we are addressing content by
location so we're telling you where to
find something instead of what it is and
a lot of people talked about this as a
problem in come up with solutions but
hasn't quite quite sunk in and
so to drive more the point here and to
show you why this is actually a huge
problem today
picture a bigger room of people and it's
filled with people with a bunch of
computers and you know nowadays we carry
a laptop and maybe a mobile phone so now
watch and we'll have a bunch of devices
you know say that I that I am upload a
picture to to Facebook and I give
everyone the link and now a whole bunch
of people are going to go to Facebook
and fetch that image from Facebook all
the way back so you know not that big of
a deal right well let's look at how it
looks in the in the backbone so I make a
request to Facebook and I send it up and
you know say it's just a one megabyte
image times eight here because there's a
so say that there's eight links so the
total amount of bandwidth you know this
is these are really rough calculations
just to give you a picture so that
there's eight mega bus bandwidth used by
my picture going all the way up to
Facebook and when 30 people show up you
know say they're all in the same room
and they all talk to Facebook and all
pull down the image now that's 240
megabytes of bandwidth wasted and you
might say well you know that's
unavoidable because we have to encrypt
everything and and you know that's true
you have to grab everything but you know
it's you know we we have to ship the
image 30 times across the wire it
doesn't matter if it's wasted like you
just have to send it maybe that's true
maybe that isn't true uh and you know
what well maybe two hundred forty
megabytes is not a big deal right but
one if we were looking at video instead
so imagine that you go to youtube and
you started watching a video and it's
you know in hi-def so it'd say it's like
up about 200 megabytes and you send it
to everybody else and then like these 30
people start downloading a 200 megabyte
video across these eight links now we're
talking about 48 gigabytes of bandwidth
that's starting to be a lot when you
look at bigger files or like you know
longer videos and so on we're looking at
potentially you know terabytes of
bandwidth needed just to move these
files around from the place that they're
needed to the backbone and back and the
crazy thing is that those same files are
the same data that represents
files might be lying around in the same
local area network that you're in so it
really like a computer right next to
yours could be serving you that file now
there's you know a lot of reasons why we
haven't done this historically but maybe
maybe made start to be a great idea that
was intense so what we're talking about
bandwidth let's look at something else
so I and kind of why this is a problem
so this is data from a combine and you
know it's a graph from 2007 to 2012 we
could update it but this is kind of an
older graph and in that period of five
years bandwidth only improved about one
or two megabits per second in the g7 and
that's you know the seven largest
economy so that is not a very
significant improvement when you compare
that to you know the way that our
storage is increasing right we now have
10 terabyte hard drives we we had one
terabyte a few years ago we're going to
have 100 terabytes in a few more I mean
it's it's the cost is double you know
not having every 11 months and we're now
looking at big numbers so that means
that we want to be we're saturating
these pipes and the bandwidth from the
local area networks to the backbone is
really really really small compared to
how much we want to use them and
actually problems worse because the the
rate of improvement on the on the speed
of connections of the ever average
connection it's actually improving at a
slower rate than storage so that means
that people are getting larger capacity
drives faster than they are getting
better bandwidth which gives you the
impression that things are getting
slower because in a sense you're you
want to use more of the network there's
another problem which is latency and I
mean we we've all known for a long time
that we can't get around the fact the
speed of light is constant so the only
way to make things faster is by moving
them closer to you this is why the you
know Amazon and Google have offered
these cloud services that you can hire
to store a whole bunch of stuff right
next to right next to where it's needed
the most and
this works pretty well except that you
know sometimes even maybe sometimes
people don't have things deployed in
those locations or you know even that
latency out too you know through these
slow pipes to that data center it's too
much I mean maybe what you need is like
a the file that you need is literally
like in another device in the same room
and instead you like you're piping the
data through the backbone you're like
making a request out to the network
grabbing the file and and then pulling
it down instead of just talking to the
other device that you have locally and
this is kind of an absurd thing that uh
that we do this in you know kind of on a
funny anecdote I was giving a talk once
recently about ipfs and the slides that
I wanted to present we're stuck in my
computer and my computer couldn't talk
to the projector because I we didn't
have the right adapter and getting my
slides from my computer to another
person's computer required because
nobody had a USB key require sending the
slides all the way up to the backbone
and then back down uh and you know like
it didn't actually yeah most people
would have had to do that like you we
actually just drop into the terminal and
just connected to the specific computer
directly and so on but you know this is
the kind of stuff that we're dealing
with like most the average person
doesn't know how to do any of that uh
there's another big issue here and
that's the the dichotomy between online
and offline operation right so we
program we as engineers are sort of
misusing the web because we program
behind this model of saying you know we
have this data center and if the user
can talk to the data center then they're
online and if they can't they're offline
and this is actually a pretty bad model
and increasingly it's becoming more and
I know perception that it was going to
get more and more true as in you know
we're going to connect everyone and
everyone's gonna be online all the time
but it's actually not accurate because
we have evermore devices that we carry
around and context which we were using
these devices that are not close to any
kind of network that can move us so
imagine that you go on a plane and
you're traveling and you have your
laptop
and you have your phone maybe have some
files in one and on the other and I like
moving those arounds like most
applications a table or not gonna do
that
in fact certainly most applications that
use to the Weber certainly not going to
live they're not even going to load most
things are just ceased operation the
moment that you step us out of the
bounds of the network and you know it
sort of to illustrate how this works
like it you know imagine you have again
this like massive classroom but is this
classroom is great it just shows so much
of these so many of these issues right
you know it's a that I I open a Google
Doc or something and I send it out to
everyone else so everyone opens in
school doc and now we're all
collaborating but all of these updates
are getting shipped out to the to the
backbone you know some Google server and
then shipped all the way back and so
that's how we're collaborating so by the
way we're seeing a lot of latency there
because every single time you type
something has to go out there and back
instead of right next to you you could
be literally sending this to the person
and they still have to go go out there
and it's kind of hidden behind the fact
that you know human humanism perceived
that much latency and you know if you
get you know around 300 or 400
milliseconds like you're barely going to
notice it but you know say that
something that happens to the rest of
the network and this whole room loses
connectivity to the backbone suddenly
the entire application comes crashing
down and nobody can do anything so maybe
they can keep editing things locally but
they cannot ship the updates that
they're making to the person right next
to them and this is absurd right I mean
talk to any person who's using these
applications they think it's crazy that
they can't the data from one computer
can get to the other computer which is
right next to it and in reality these
these app these computers are actually
talking to each other they're on the
same network they're probably paying
each other or you know they're seeing
each other's packets flowing through
they we just haven't taught our
applications how to have them talk about
these files and the problem is all over
the web you know I I'm not picking
Google here like there's look at tons of
applications that we use day-to-day and
like run our lives our sees operation
entirely in fact actually Google's one
this they have this awesome technology
called operational transforms that
allows these updates to you know to be
done concurrently and like to give you
this amazing impression that it's
working on flawlessly and you know they
all get applied in the backbone and you
can be editing the same document and it
just works flawlessly they could be
sending those updates to each other
through you know things like web RTC and
and so on
let's parts I know that doesn't happen
and it certainly doesn't happen most
applications that you see in the web and
this is not a a flaw of the protocols
themselves in that we sort of could be
could be using WebRTC nowadays but is it
actually a flaw in how we store data and
how we reference data so it's how HTTP
has taught us to store data on the web
and reference it and you know since the
beginning of its to be like a w3c has
actually come up with a whole bunch of
new ways to reference data that are
better but people haven't really adopted
them in the web now uh to me this this
set of problems kind of feels very silly
right like you have this massive set of
computer somewhere and then you take out
the mothership and everything grinds to
a halt and most people think this is
fine but in reality we enter terrible
bandwidth promise we run into these
issues with being somewhere between the
online/offline
spectrum you know maybe we're in very
low bandwidth setting or we have a bunch
of interference or there's congestion or
maybe you're traveling like I mentioned
or your ISP has intermittent outages
this happens to me all the time and
maybe the data center has some problem
right so many issues could be occurring
and users can't be forced to - dunno
halt
their operation just because there's
some discontinuity between them and the
backbone so our application should learn
how to operate in entirely distributed
settings and it's we as engineers need
to start doing this and we need to build
better tools for application developers
to do this now it's actually really
important right so you might think that
I'm just talking about these problems
that we want to improve but they really
really matter
and they matter so much that if you ask
any Egyptian about the time that the
internet shut down because her
government decided if they were not
going to allow communications they were
they are going to tell you very
seriously that these applications either
potentially save their lives or their
family's lives so these are not only
measuring critical to businesses they
are mission critical to human human
lives potentially at risk so these
particular communication things need to
be able to speak in to each other when
disconnected from the backbone we need
to be able to to talk have our computers
talk to each other and we need to be
able to do so securely right so we we've
seen this you know in the last few years
we've seen like the great failing of of
our community in terms of securing
everything you know we've had major
breaches described you know by Snowden
and so on and you know there's there's
all sorts of problems with how we're
moving around data on the web and it's
really not enough to encrypt the
communications all right you know if you
I think it's a couple years ago or maybe
no how long you know Dropbox had this
huge data problem where they allowed
anyone to log in for something like four
hours and anybody could log into your
account and look at your files and that
was you know Dropbox is full of great
engineers and this is kind of like you
know if they are not getting it
perfectly right imagine how many people
are just getting it totally wrong so we
need to be encrypting everything or
really looking carefully at how we're
doing security on the client side and
treating the cloud as just as much as we
possibly can treating the cloud as just
oblivious ablative storage or oblivious
routing systems and you know this is
this of course complicates everything
but you know certain kinds of
applications are certain kinds of
context for applications demand that
kind of attention now the last one we
don't want to talk about is permanence
and this one is really really deeply
important to me and it might not be as
obvious to everyone why this matters
but you know I'll try my best to
illustrate it so think about
book-burning for a moment think about
the most important piece of media that
you can think about like the most
important book you ever read or you know
the you know think about all of
Wikipedia and imagine someone coming
along and burning it and really
destroying it making it impossible for
anyone to read ever again
think about all the knowledge that is
lost now historically with free book
burning as this insane crazy offense to
to progress and to into humanity itself
and we've condemned anyone who's gone to
do such a thing and you know it's kind
of you know and when you look and hit
throughout history and you look at a you
know the occurrences of book burning
they drop off significantly with the
advent of the printing press this is
because the printing press allowed you
to make many copies of the same book
very cheaply so you know say that you
print a whole bunch of copies alright
book we're going to show up and try
different a lot of books
well they're probably only going to be
able to get to a few of them or even if
you get most there's probably copies
there and survive and you'll be able to
make more copies so this is great now we
have some problems today because you
know if you've been around the web you
know bring this back to the digital
world it's going to run the web you've
probably seen a 404 right at 404 is an
error the tells you that some resource
is not found what that means is that
there was a link pointing to another
object and that object is either no
longer there because someone took it
down I burned the book or someone moved
it and you know we tend to to talk we
tend to chastise a lot of a lot of
agencies and so on for for you know
taking certain content down or censoring
and so on but we forget that there's a
tiny little book burnings happening
constantly whenever any web developer
move some content from one location to
another any length and anyone had added
to that location is now broken and we'll
it is you know potentially findable
through search
but not going to be that link is now
going not no longer going to work
potentially you know because we're we we
have the system where both the publisher
of content has to host it or you know
make sure that it's hosted somewhere the
the consumer of the content must depend
on that not producer keeping that
content up or they have to copy it and
move it somewhere else and given a new
address right so this is again like the
the this is this is strongly related to
the location addressing problem is sort
of behind this this is why links break
because I know people end up being
careless and moving things around in you
know really thinking of the web of
documents as in the abstract you know
kind of ignores the fact that that
really the web is not just a web with
documents it's a web of documents on the
machines and that the notion or
description of a document identifies the
set of machines that are responsible for
keeping up and this prevents people from
replicating or being able to host the
same content somewhere else you know
this is kind of like a book burners
paradise and you know I'm describing
this like accidental book burning that
happens no fortunately someone you know
a group of people very smart all right
Sallah this was a pretty big problem
early on and into the web's history and
started trying to archive everything and
of course I'm talking about the Internet
Archive and it looks like this is
beautiful if you haven't been there you
probably should and it they are running
this project to try and index the entire
web and store it so every single page
they can possibly find the story because
they know that stuff will be needed in
the future ironically I was trying to
find the source code for one of the one
of the protocols that we learned a lot
from and used to develop ipfs and
funnily enough the source code is only
available through the Internet Archive
because people that we're hosting the
code no longer hosting it or you know
maybe there were some questions over
whatever we could only find it through
the
way back machine which is this great
service that they run this is actually
very closely related to another
important problem described by then Cerf
who is one of the creators of the
Internet and that's this notion of
digital vellum and think of old
computers you know as technology evolves
and gets better with time we stopped
using the old things and so much so that
we stopped being able to give them
maintenance and sometimes they break and
when they break nobody knows how to fix
em or nobody has the parts to fix them
so these old machines that no longer
work may have been readers of important
media so things that we stored in some
some physical material that the this
computer or this machine was going to
read out to us and now the machine is
broken nobody knows how to fix it it
means that all of that content is lost
completely lost unless we find a way to
fix it and so you know the solution to
this is really learn to emulate
everything right so we society should be
very careful with the types of media
that we store and how we store them to
make sure that you know if even if we
stop using something or some major
problem happens we can emulate all of
these computers or machines you know
they were old to try and read the
coatings or you know tell like be able
to read out this media and so we need to
be able to to simulate or emulate every
single computer that we ever built and
you know I this is again related to this
this book-burning problem because say
that we do that say that we we create
all these emulators where do we host
them that location might be taken down
you know so we you know might be taken
down or maybe might lose funding or
whatever we need to be able to replicate
these systems and store them in as many
places possibly can and we need to build
tools and make the internet capable of
of doing this very easily so these are
the the problems that have driven us to
think through how the web works think
through how content moves around in the
internet and come up with solution
you know this isn't designed sort of in
the abstract we're actually we thought
for a long time and we set this thought
through many different kinds of attempts
and solutions to this problem to try and
synthesize a bunch of good ideas that
work well together and provide a some
new software that I put the protocol and
tool set that people can use to make the
web better
you